Hello.
Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon.
Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
So 25 participants joined.
So this is the last unit.
Okay, so that is on policy gradient. Good afternoon, sir.
Good afternoon, sir.
Had you checked that quiz question, sir?
Uh, I didn't get time.
Okay, I will ask, uh, here to look at it.
Okay, so today I'm not going to derive anything.
I will go over the same thing again.
Next class. I will show you one example using Python
notebook today.
I'm not going to show you anything on Python notebook. Okay?
So policy gradient, uh,
as I said there last week, we have
under model three, we have completed
Montecarlo TT learning, Q learning and DQ learning.
These four things we call completed,
these are all model free.
Hello waste method for, uh, solving the
reinforcement learning problems policy gradient.
It comes under appro approximation method of solution.
We are not going to find out anything by the help
of some kind of tabular method so that we can get
alternatively result.
We're not going to do it.
We are gonna take the help of neural network to approximate,
uh, the policy that we're going to do, the policy evaluation
and policy improvement for both of them.
Okay? So for that, we have shown what is
basic, uh, uh, I mean
for every new network you're going to find out some kind of
optimization, some kind of objective function.
And through, uh, back propagation, you are going
to find out the parameter which will
make your estimation close to your real value.
In the case of policy gradient, we are going to
maximize the expected sum of discounted reward.
I mean, for that, we are not going to take any help
of any kind of real value so
that we can estimate some function that will be close
to the, uh, real value.
We don't have any real value, okay?
So policy in gradient, uh, method,
we are maximizing some expected sum of discounted reward.
That's it. We don't have any target value
through which we can do that.
Uh, approximations, okay?
That, that is one big difference between deep Q learning
and policy gradient based estimation.
Okay? In case of deep Q learning,
you have already seen we are maintaining two neural network.
One is the policy neural network
that you are keep on learning,
and the other one is a target network
for which you are getting the value by some kind of
estimation of the true value.
And that estimation is happening by the help of
Monte Carlo or TD learning.
Okay? So in this case, we are not going to take
any help of any true ha estimation.
We just have one policy
and we are going to update the policy based on this policy
gradient theod them,
but we don't have any true palu with whom we are going
to compare and estimate our ha.
Okay? So that is one big difference.
So in the last class I have shown you this derivation.
It is written in the PDF form here.
So we are going to do the objective function.
We have to find out the objective function, the function
that we're going to maximize.
Object objective function remains the same, that we have
to find out the expected sum of discounted reward.
So this is the, this is called sum of discounted reward.
The reward and the state
of ST when you have taken the action ut, okay,
this is called sum of discounted reward.
And if we apply expectation operator on this sum
of discount, it becomes a expected sum of discounted
and this expectation is happening over all the
projectile inside the policy.
Okay? So projectile means we are going
to take state of state action, state action sequence.
So this is a tral, let au denote the state action sequence.
Okay? So for the tau, what is your reward?
You are going to get for every state action period,
whatever reward is there, if just keep on summation,
that is your au and this au is this thing.
And what is the probability of choosing a particular towel?
Tau means it's a projectile. That probability is given here.
So the expectation is take this quantity multiplied
by the probability and take some of all probability
that is the expectation.
So in order to find the maximization of, so this,
this one is basically parameter dependent on this theater.
It is a policy, okay? So you're going to maximize this.
So find out any maximization, you have to find the faster
derivative and save the faster delivery to J so
that you can find out the parameters.
However, this is not a explicit,
explicit function of theater.
So you cannot set this to zero
and find out the value the, like in case of
all other optimization in if you have remembered your
class 12 level mathematics for which we use that technique.
Okay? So that is not possible
because this function EU is a implicit function of the,
is not explicit function of theta.
Explicit function means you can write EU two B,
something like X one multiplied by theta one squared,
then plus X two multiplied by theta two cube like that,
that is called explicit function.
Those are not the case in case
of this neural network based function.
Okay? So then what we do is we have a
gradient descent method in case
of solving the maximizing problem
and to use gradient ascent method.
Okay? So do you guys
remember what is or why do we require
gradient descent method?
The gradient descent is to require
to find the global minimums of any, uh, function.
Hmm, anybody else minimize the loss
To adjust the weights
and on that so that to minimize the loss,
Hmm?
So that minimize that,
Minimize the gap between the, uh, no, the current
loss, whatever the loss we have currently to,
we need to minimize the gap actually to, we need
to access the weights so that uh, the
loss outcome is minimized. That's
Mm mm Okay, so that is a algebra meaning.
Now what is the geometric meaning
Optimization.
Mm, Fastest way to reach, uh, the global minimum,
the optimal way to reach the,
The geometrically.
Can we say that the prediction line on the graph should
cover most of the points so such that, you know,
the prediction can be done more accurately.
Coverage, sir? The
Direction the, Of the steepest
Optimal direction.
Huh? Direction of the
Steep, you're saying steepest something you said
Descent. Ah,
so the optimal direction
or the, the direction of the steepest descent.
Okay, good. So what do you mean by that
direction of CPS dissent,
Sir, when we plot the loss, Mm, slope.
Slope of the curve.
Slope, yeah. Mm.
Okay, go ahead
Sir. One side, we
plot the lo
the loss and then
The other said we have the weight parameters, uh, theta
and then while we plot it, uh, we get a convex, uh, curve.
And then release point is the global minimum.
I mean that
Would be a ConX card.
That is not the correct statement.
The idea, uh, okay.
Whatever you have said so far is correct.
Um, most of you, whatever you have said,
you have said part, part, part.
All of them are correct. Some problem was there.
That is, uh, someone of you have said, uh,
when we plot, we get a convex curve.
That is not the correct thing.
The if the function
that you're optimizing the function is not a convex,
then you cannot apply, uh, this kind
of gradient design method.
Okay? So the function has
to be convex function, okay?
Then, then the next thing, uh, some
of you said global minimum,
Local minimum, sir,
Local minimum, but some
of you said global minimum also. Okay?
I only said sir, I only said sir that I am
updating my statement to local
Minimum. Okay?
Okay.
So this, uh, gradient descent method, it is a method for
local optimization, not a global optimization
because we don't have the, uh, whole knowledge of the global
variation of the parameters, okay?
Yes sir. And uh, the other thing is someone who have said,
uh, so other than that, everything is correct.
So yeah, Ruby had said something optimal descent,
optimal direction of, uh, steepest.
Descent, right?
At the same time, another person also said the same thing,
I think his name, okay?
So another natural question is
what is called optimal direction?
The optimal in case of
loss minimization, okay?
We are going to find out the steepest descent,
but what is called uh, descent?
The descent means going down, okay?
And ascent means going up, okay?
Is a very English meaning it is attached
to these problems also ion problem also.
So when you're going to find out a function
that you wanna minimize, so you're going
to use gradient descent
whenever you want to maximize this function,
then you're going to use gradient ascent.
Ascent, okay? So what is gradient means then?
Gradient algebraically it means
that it is a delivery deal, okay?
But geometrically it means
that slope.
Slope, ah, slope, yes.
So slope means if you draw a tangent at
that particular point, a tangent
of the curve is called slope.
You, you function that one, minimizing the function can be
a kind of bowel, it can be a function like
sinusoidal function, okay?
In case of sinusoidal function,
you cannot apply gradient descent method
because it is a non convex function.
It is not avex thing, okay?
So gradient descent means the direction
in which you should move
if the direction in which you are moving, if it is
reducing the value of the function, that is called
descent direction, okay?
Gradient descent means it is a particular
direction in which if you move
your descent will be highest, okay?
So you may move in some direction,
you can observe your function is reducing.
Reducing, okay? That is a descent direction.
That doesn't mean mean it is a gradient. Descent.
Gradient means the direction in which
the rate of change
of the function is the maximum, okay?
So if the rate of change of function is maximum,
and if you move in that direction,
then your increase in the function, okay?
Gradient means that is why you do, you always do this theta,
you are assigning to old value of theta minus
of gradient of the function.
This minus why we do,
because we want to move on the opposite side
of the gradient direction so
that we can minimize the function.
Okay? Here we are going to use gradient ascent.
We're not going to use gradient descent
and uh, the yoga had said, uh,
what, what did you say?
Something that all the directions are maximizing that. Uh,
What I said was the tangent
or the line which we plot that should cover most
of the points such that the slope should be such that,
so that is what I said,
No, no slope. The
def, the definition of slope is always,
it is the tangent of the curve at that point.
So you cannot put any condition on slope, okay?
So whatever, so whatever is your car at every point,
you can draw a slope at every point, okay?
So one slope will not cover all the points,
but if the graph is a wellbe behaved graph like convex carb,
in that case, most of the points will be above the tangent
and that point is called the minimum point.
Okay? Okay.
So we have this one that is this expression,
you have got it last week if and witness this class itself.
This is called, this expression is called,
this is called
expectation of this quantity.
Okay? Grad. This grad grad, okay?
Grad log probability tau multiplied by,
okay, take this expectation.
That is what is the whole thing here.
And for this expectation, actually we don't have access
to this probability density function of
choosing a particular projectile.
We don't have that access.
So what they said is you considered all the
projectile projectile.
I last class I have drawn that, uh,
I think I have shared it to you, right?
That PDF of class note.
This is the last note.
So we have a policy like this, okay?
In a frozen lake environment
you can see this thing, right?
So we have a policy like this projectiles,
this is the projectile state action.
Next date action. Next date action Like that.
Okay, so what projectile you are going to choose,
we don't have the exact access to its probability.
This probability is unknown to us.
So what the first level approximation is consider
that all projectile are equal probability.
So we have total aim number of projectile, okay?
Projectile means you are
basically sampling from this policy.
You are taking one sample from this whole
state action pair, okay?
That is one projectile.
So you consider all of this tower one, tau two
and everything, uh, equally probability.
So you compute this gradient
of log P multiplied by au compute that probability,
I mean compute this quantity mul
and then take the sum for all
of them for each and every project.
This is for each and every project you are taking.
Do the submission for all the divide that by aim.
So that becomes your this thing, okay?
So now the next next problem is
how can we find out this?
Because this is exactly the same thing.
We don't have access to probability of Tao.
So actually we don't have access.
So that is what we're going
to find out the approximation, okay?
Here we're considering all the equally likely so
that we don't have to multiply these two unknown quantity,
this two unknown quantity multiplied form
and then optimizing that is going to be daunting task.
So first you would just consider this is equal priority,
forget about it Now, now demanding part is this one.
For this we have a,
for the approximation things that we have to apply.
So this is our objective function and this is our gradient.
This gradient we have to calculate so that we can
make the update of theta will be set from the old
value of theta plus this part.
Okay? So this gradient actually the meaning
of gradient is it'll increase the probability of pathway
with positive reward.
So this gradient will rise if
R is rising, this reward is rising
and gradient will fall, reward is falling, okay?
So basically following means it is a negative reward.
Okay? So since this is a multiplication R multiplied
by this quantity, this quantity is again unknown to us.
We have to approximate it.
So uh, we are taking platform.
So some positive reward
and negative reward will help us to find out that, okay,
so we are going to increase the probability of the
TR time that is path.
If the reward that we're getting at the end of completion
of the projectile, if the reward is positive,
then we'll increase that particular projectile.
If the reward is negative,
then we'll decrease the probability.
That is the main objective here. The policy gradient.
We need to increase the probability for projectile,
we decrease the projectile
and that is the main objective here.
Okay?
Then there are further appro that we apply.
That is, this is the highest projectile.
This one probability of tau I given theta.
Theta is the neural networks weight. Okay?
So this one we had to take this probability, uh, gradient
of this as I told, this is a unknown thing for us.
We need to approximate this so that there are a lot
of levels of approximation.
The first one is, so tawa means what?
This is a state action pair. This Tao,
Sir? Uh,
uh, sheet number five one.
I was writing some things one
for one second one previous slide.
Previous slide?
Mm hmm.
Yes sir. Thank you sir. Yes.
Okay, I'll share this slide to you.
Just was taking notes sir. Ah,
Fine, Thank
You. Okay, so
this tau tau is a state and pair.
The tau is expression like this.
This is multiplication of two probability.
The first probability is given, you are in the state of ST.
Here I stands for I eighth projectile.
You have many projectile as I told I have shown you here.
You have many projectile with state action payer, okay?
For every projectile it is a state action payer. Okay?
So for the, I projectile this,
this super script I stands for the IS projectile.
It is consisting of multiplication of two probability.
First probability is what is the action you are going
to take at the state of st.
This is your current state.
What is the action you are taking? That is called ut. Okay?
So this probability, you going to find out
after that, given that you are in the state of st,
you are taking the action ut your next state is
going to be ST plus one.
So what is the probability for that?
This two multiplication is going to be
for one particular state like that you have many states.
So this T stands for
how many states are possible within a projectal.
This H stands for total number of states within a projectal.
So all of these states action, state action,
this is going to be multiplied.
Okay? So this one, this is multiplication.
Uh, excuse me sir. Sir,
this is this probability is PMF or PDF, sir,
This is, this is, this is going.
So you do you know the difference in PMF and PDF?
Yes sir. PMF is just the probability of
that particular instance.
Probability density function is some kind
of cumulative aspects where we take into consideration
of the previous probabilities
and add it on top of it. So no, no
To me, no, no.
Uh, you have said it. Just say it again.
Prob PMF is accumulation of pro density did that right?
No sir. Uh, probability mass function is basically the
distribution whereas the probability density function is uh,
the summation of probability until that particular uh,
aspect where we are uh, focusing on
Discrete and continuous location.
When remember we had for discrete, uh,
variables of, for continuous variables, we had these
mass was I think,
Sorry, uh, in that case actually probability mass function
and cumulative probability function.
So here we are focusing on which ones that,
that was my doubts.
Okay, so basically the difference between PMF
and PDF is PDF stands for pro density function.
Pro density function is applicable to continuous variable
and sir PMF stands for provide mass, mass function.
It is applicable to discrete variable, okay? Yes sir.
And you have said cumulative
Or cumulative probability mass function, sir
or cumulative probability density function,
Cumulative provided density function is a wrong
term or cumulative.
Another term that you said cumulative,
Uh, no sir. The,
I don't remember the exact terminology for it,
but it is the capital if where we integrate the values from
Yes, yes, yes. Right.
Pardon me. So C, D, F,
it is called CDF cumulative distribution function.
It is not density function, it is distribution function.
Okay? So cumulative distribution function is basically
a integration of probability
density function within an interval.
That interval is called that.
What is there value that you are aiming for?
Okay, so actually I don't have that stylist
with me because I left it in my office, uh,
because last, uh, two days I had online classes.
Yes sir. Okay, so uh, the
physical meaning is probability density function.
You can consider that.
Let's say you have a continuous variable.
The continuous variable means you are
measuring temperature of a room.
Yeah, okay. Temperature of a room.
You can measure throughout the day
for every time moment you have a measurement
possible, okay?
It is possible. However,
because of lack of memory,
you cannot store all the valves, okay?
Because 24 hours you can divide into uh, one hour.
One hour can divide a second, second, you can like that
so much small interval I can find out
for every interval you are going
to have some value only for the case.
Our lack of memory,
we stored it in a particular discrete interval.
So if the same measurement you're storing in a particular
interval, that is called discrete variable, okay?
So in case of discrete variable,
we cannot find out probability density function.
We can find out probability, mass function, okay?
Okay. So the only difference is discrete
and continuous is for case of continuous,
your faster ative is F of X plus H minus F of X
divided by H, where H will be very near to zero.
Okay? So that is your concept of derivative, okay?
If X is itself a discrete variable, in that case,
what will happen is value
of X is possible only at some discrete interval,
not in every point possible.
Mm-hmm. So we call that priority mass function is
available at only some particular points.
That is what it's called mass. Okay?
And density means it is throughout the,
throughout the space available.
Okay? Okay. And a CDF means suppose I want
to find out that,
um, what is going to be my probability
if I am interested to know my temperature
of the room will not exceed 30 degree.
I mean it'll be always less than equal to 30 degree.
So what you do, you integrate all the temperature value,
right from zero to 30 zero is a low considering, okay?
So you integrate all the provide density available
for all the temperature, which is less than equal to 30.
When you do this integrated,
that becomes a cumulative distribution function.
It is called capital C, capital D, capital L.
It is an integration here, in this case,
we're using probability density function.
If the action state action space is a continuous,
hmm, if the state action is a discrete, in
that case it'll look probably to mass function.
Okay? Okay, thanks sir.
Okay, so this becomes
your platform.
Now log operator applied on the multiplication,
you'll get a summation of log.
Okay? So log will go inside
and then some of all the logs, okay, so log is going inside.
So you have some of all the log. Now this,
Can you please repeat the previous step in all this?
We lost this one,
This step? Yes
sir. The, Okay, okay, so this step meaning is
the, ultimately we have
to find out this gradient which is unknown to us.
So we are going to make much more approximation of this.
The first step of appro approximation, what is tawa?
What is tay? Tawa is basically your state action sequence.
State action. Hmm? Projectile. So it is state action pair.
So for one projectile, that is I projectile,
this is a I projectile, okay?
It has cap, totally H number
of states possible capital H.
Okay? So
you take one particular action at the
state of st.
This is a ST at timestamp
T, you are in the state called st.
Okay, you are taking action called ut.
Once you have taken action naturally you are going
to transition to a new state.
That new state is called ST plus one.
So first one is coming from policy,
this one is coming from policy.
Look at this is coming from policy.
Policy means given a state, what is the action you are going
to choose, okay?
Under a particular state
and action payer, you are now going
to transition to a new state.
So this is called dynamics.
This dynamics is coming from your transition probability
model, but which action you are going to choose
that is coming from your policy model.
Okay? So now in order to express
IH projectile, you are going to take
this state action pair for all the state.
So this will go on this, this multiplication will go on
for capital H number of times.
This one, okay? This multiplication is
to happen over each number of times,
capital H number of times.
And this age number of times is basically indexed
by timestamps, small T, this small T,
this small T here it is small, T here, all this.
Okay? So
Once that T you can write.
So you have a log operator applied
before this, all these things.
So multiplication, so log of multiplication means some
of log, so log of AB means log A plus log B.
So this multiplication will become now some,
this multiplication will become some and log will go inside.
Okay? Now we are changing the policy parameter.
Policy means at a state what action you are going to choose.
So you are changing UT given st.
So this part only you are changing by the change
of your neural network parameters.
It'll not make change into your
state transition prob model.
Okay? So this is
not dependent on the parameter theater.
So gradient with respect to this thing is going to vanish
because it is not dependent on parameter theater.
Only thing is this will be demanding.
So gradient with respect to theater, this is some
valuable quantity that will be there.
However, this will, so it'll come down to this stage now.
So gradient of gradient with respect to the, for
sum of log action,
given state action given state,
Okay, So this gradient applied on
sum of variable.
So gradient of function, x plus function of Y,
it means that gradient of function,
x plus gradient of function of Y.
Okay? So this gradient will go inside,
summation will go outside.
It means that gradient of sum of two function is equal
to gradient of function, one plus gradient
of function two like that.
Okay? So this will come down to here now,
Okay, So this means
to increase the probability a trajectory, you need
to increase the log probability
of the action along the trajectory.
So if you want to increase the probability of a trajectory,
so you need to increase the log probability
of action along the trajectory.
Sir, one question. Um, the transition probability model,
how is this different from the state action or
Hmm, The policy?
How is this transition probability model different from the
policy and this word we are getting I think in this lecture,
uh, in the past, uh, I don't recall.
Hmm. Okay, so
this transition probably if you look at this one.
So it is transition probability
or conditional probability,
No transition Probability,
transitional, yes, it's, yes,
It is not con, it's written
as conditional probability also
because st plus one given, given ST
and ut, okay, this is conditional,
but this is also known as transition probability transition.
Why? It is basically under a particular state
and action pair, you are transitioning to a new state, okay?
Once you have been committed to a particular action,
then the next state that you are going to get
that is not going to be influenced by your policy.
Again, your policy says what? What is the meaning of policy?
Policy says at a particular state what
action you should take out of all possible action.
So that probability is called policy.
Suppose at a particular state here at a particular state,
you can take any one of these four action, okay?
Now, if you assign probability to each one of them,
that is called your policy,
Okay? Mm-hmm.
Once you have been committed to a particular PO action,
I mean once you're committed
to a particular state action period, naturally you are going
to do a transition to a next state, right?
Suppose you are here and this state, you have been committed
to this action, down action.
So your next state can be either this
or it can be this or it can be this.
So three, five,
and seven out of this, this is your next state.
So that next state is not going to be influenced
by the action again because the action is already fixed now.
So that is why it is independent of your policy,
this transition and probability transition st plus one,
that choice is independent of your policy
and the next thing is
now naturally we have, we have come down to this stage now,
okay, this is our, this thing.
So for that we are using multi estimation method
because we have to take I number, I mean
projectile are going to be indexed
by I you can take aim number of projectile.
Each projectile are equally probability.
So you compute this term for each projectile
and this is now reduced to this term, okay?
This part alone, that this part alone has been reduced
to this much.
Okay? Now look at this art tower also,
we can do a decomposition till now we have been doing
decomposition of this part, which has come down to here.
Sir, how did this come in the past? We read about this.
Is it this equation?
I mean just now you said this is equal to this.
Mm-hmm This one. So,
Okay, so now we are decomposing this one.
Ah, yes. One
By one arm we're decomposing.
Ah, so RHSR Hs. When you're talking about, yeah,
No here, RHS there this becomes LHS. So
Okay, so basically as I told you, this is an unknown term.
Ah, this part is unknown.
So one by one we are decomposing, right?
That is why this becomes now LHS,
Right? Because we
are far that it is like this.
That is why I'm telling this is a learning world.
You want to uh, decrypt something, okay?
Suppose you are roaming in a unknown world,
you want to decrypt something.
So you take a particular target, you want to know that.
So to know that what are things you need to know?
One by one you need to know them, okay?
Right sir. Right sir. So that's understood.
How did we decompose to that value you showed on that slide.
Uh, here is all this thing. Uh,
Now this part were decomposing, so this will reduce
to this much, okay?
Okay, Okay.
Okay. So for this part, we have got a,
some kind of approximation till now we
have not been able to solve it.
Okay? Now this is remaining.
This part is remaining
because this is what is your you theater, I mean gradient
of you, theater you is your objective, okay?
But this part art tower, that is the reward
for the is projectal that is remaining.
So for that, now this rau,
we have a expression.
This one I'll tell you later this,
this called baseline subtraction.
I will tell you later,
actually, many of you'll feel trouble in this quo in this,
this particular stage of the course.
But I will tell you one thing, the science
of AI is reinforcement learning, okay?
The deep learning, and they're not science,
they're something tool technology.
You don't know anything, any logic behind them
here, everything, what I'm teaching is based on logic.
I don't give you tool and use run it, see the effect.
That is not the thing. Okay?
Okay. So I have not shown the decomposition for art au
because arto is what your reward
for the projectal called Tao.
Okay? So as I told you, if you finish your projectal,
then only you are going to get your reward.
In case of most of the games you're playing chase game,
you do not receive any reward
for your intermediate movement.
Only when you finish the game,
either you are defeated or you are winning.
In that case you get a reward.
That reward will be getting, uh, propagated back
to all the states depending on the
movement that you have made.
The propagation, I'm not talking about,
I'm talking about the reward received for the, uh,
projectile called, okay,
this beam is basically constant
that I will tell you later what is the meaning of it.
I will tell you later, and it's called baseline subtraction.
Okay? So what is au i?
So AU is basically your reward optin for the
tower projectile.
I mean I projectile that reward.
You can decompose it for every state action
if you get a your in the intermediate step.
In that case, however,
we can still write even though it is zero
for every state action pair in the intermediate level
it may be zero, but still you can write it logically, okay?
Because as and when your itemization goes on,
you have already seen your um, uh, expected reward
that will start growing for every state.
So as in when your iation is going on,
some values will be coming up for every pair of this
STN ut, okay?
Initial stage will zero.
So the sum of this reward, basically
reward opt in for every state and action pair.
Okay? So every state
and action pair means how many states you have capital H,
number of states, okay?
So you are going to write this summation.
Now for every state and action pair,
just sum of all the rewards.
Now here in this case it says that I am
and the state of ST
and the state of st T can be anything between zero two H
and this reward is state of ST,
where T is zero two H.
So here you have this, uh, repeated sum.
This T is called zero two H.
Here again, T is called zero two H.
So the, the people who have been working in domain, those
who have proposed so many methods,
they said this submission,
this much submission not required.
You just need to do the submission for
the reward obtained.
So you can decompose this reward into two space.
One is K to zero, two T minus one, another one is K
to T, two H, okay?
So this is called past reward
because the state number SK is before T minus on.
So this past reward and this one is future reward T on word.
So this uh, past reward is not a headache for us.
So we can forget about it
because we are going to maximize our reward
for the future actions.
The past, whatever has happened, we can forget about it.
So this will be removed and now only this part is remaining.
This will greatly reduce the variance
of the objective function.
That is why they're fine tuning again and again.
So then the, they're keeping this submission.
Now that T is too, I mean the state that you're going
to consider is from the current
and the futures not the past.
So we have these three submission to platform
for this multi-platform.
Okay? Now what is this B?
This B that we're subtracting here.
The reason for B coming up is called we don't have B,
we are doing only everything with this part.
We are going to do everything with this part.
So we have to wait till the point of completion of your
uh, episode when your iation
has gone for many times.
Now, what will happen in most of the states,
you'll get some kind of reward.
So for updating their
updating the gradient, you don't have to wait for completion
of this tower, okay?
What you can do is for every state, you can consider
that there is some kind of value function available to me
and I will do the subtraction of this RI
for every state basis I'm talking about minus
I will take the quantity call value function.
So it'll help me in one thing that see in every case,
we are going to make this uh,
broad, I mean broadly, we're going
to take this decision again
and again, increase the probability of path
with positive reward, decrease the probability
of the pathway, negative reward.
So if somehow we can make this quantity
to be positive or negative, that is going to be
doing my job perfectly.
Okay? So I will take this
subtraction with the average value.
So those who are below average for them,
these are AU minus of B.
B is basically average. I'm talking about those who are
below average are AU minus of B will be negative,
and those are above average.
Average rau minus B will be positive.
So I can get this positive
and negative feeling from this quantity itself if I consider
this AL minus or B quantity in this, okay?
So, and that is what is written here.
This, I'm writing this gradient in this form.
This will gradient of log PT Y multiplied by
rau minus B, this multiplication RAU minus.
So this will help me to get either positive
or negative gradient.
Based on that I will update my uh, tita parameter.
Okay? And here
that is some more proof out there.
We won't have to go through now.
And the same thing that is, even though you considered
subtraction from a average case
that is sub subtraction of baseline,
it'll not make any difference in your gradient.
So this delta, this
for this quantity
and delta U theta for this quantity,
it is going to the same value.
Okay? It'll not make any change
because you're subtracting only the A average
and then you are summing over all of them, okay?
Only thing this will help you
to convert your algorithm faster
because it is going to give you positive
or negative reward at every step.
However, in this case, you're going
to get all the time positive.
Now, who is more positive? Who is less positive?
That is the objective if you are going to use this
gradient option.
So they have said to use this
gradient, okay?
And that is how it goes on.
There are many papers out there who says what value
of B you should use.
Somebody has said, just take all the tractile
and find out the of them.
That is called constant baseline.
Another person had said no at every state action pair,
you find out the reward
and then you find the, uh, average another person is a most,
uh, popular one that is called you just use the V function.
It is V function, okay?
V of S and you have already done it
using TD learning and all.
So expectation of some of
some of reward here, not discounted.
Also some of reward starting from time.
Step T find out the expectation over all
possible TRA tile.
That is your vpi.
So you can use that as vpi and this is what most people use.
This, this thing people means open ai, Germany
and all they use this.
Okay? So then how
to estimate this value function.
We have many ways. One is tele learning,
other one is Monte Carlo.
There is another thing called we can use another neuro
network to do that.
And that becomes actor critic network.
And as I told you in the policy gradient, we will go,
we are gonna delete something called actor critic.
So actor critic means we are going
to update a policy which is active,
which is actively learning.
And whatever learning it is making, it is going to ask
to a expert.
That is like whenever you are drawing, you go
to a teacher, you are learning drawing.
So teacher has taught you many times how to draw.
Then after some time you are drawing at every finishing up
of your, uh, one object.
You ask your teacher, you show that drawing to your teacher,
you ask how good it is, how bad it is.
Then he will give you feedback, okay?
At this position he will do this stroke
or that stroke like that.
So that teacher is called critic
and this one is critic, okay?
And what is your, you as a actor, that is this part
what reward you are getting for every state action there.
So if this critic is a well evaluated function,
then you can learn your, uh, actions very well and good.
So today I stop here.
Next class, I'll show you some program
with this reinforcement.
There is a reinforcement algorithm.
There is a fast policy proposed in 1988.
I think I will show you that algorithm in uh,
PDF plain and paper
and then I'll show you it's Python notebook also today.
I'll stop it here after this.
So you have a, uh, do what did I send you
by email, sir?
That previous file also, we didn't get
ft who is present here, I have shared it to you, right?
Any TA present here?
F-L-T-D-I have given this policy gradient class note,
this thing, this one I have shared it to them.
You right email to any TA present now.
Okay,
Sir. Um,
Let me send this.
Uh,
I think all TAs on vacation most probably
because even in DLTs were not present
and even assignment hasn't been enabled yet.
So most probably
In D means deep learning.
Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Okay, fine. I'll tell them sir,
Request, you can even share this in chat, sir,
because last time also, uh, respect to TAs,
you're not uploaded shortly.
We can go through this. Okay, let me go to the chat.
Chat
Anyway. Also writing
to Neha.
Huh? Neha is the TM also writing to her sir.
Policy gradient plus
note this.
So all have to download this, okay?
And I have forgot to attach this thing.
Awesome.
Okay, fine. So if you have any question,
you can, otherwise you can,
Is there one more question, sir?
Uh, sir, for value function, why do we use log sir?
Like what, what is the purpose behind usage
of log function for this?
Oh, that is a ation coming up. The ation is here?
Yes sir. Could you please go to that? You can see
The screen?
Yes sir. I can see the screen sir.
So this here,
Okay, so it is output Actually.
So there is the gradient if you wanna take the
gradient of this thing.
Hmm? Yeah. So this gradient will go inside,
Okay? This gradient
will go inside.
Now here in my class note it is given.
Understood sir? Okay, Here's a class note, right?
Yes sir.
Here is a class note
here is a ion given.
Yes sir. Now it is with
That uh, log, uh, log trick coming up here.
Yes. And that is how it's here.
From here to here, there is a log coming up.
No, understood. No, I thought it was some kind
of like random arbitrary function that we use it,
but uh, now it is pretty much clear that, uh,
it is a derivative function.
So, and now it makes sense. Thanks.
From here to here it is coming on.
Yes. This part, this part turns out
to be gradient of log function.
Yes. Uh,
one more question is, uh, is there any application for, uh,
uh, reinforcement learning in continuous domain, sir,
or it is only in the, um, discrete domain, meaning no,
In continuous only.
It, it has started from continuous domain,
but uh, our language model, they're all, uh,
they're all discreet domain.
It is, this is for your continuous domain only
The language, uh,
LLM they're using it is only in discrete domain,
but actually it has originated from continuous domain.
I will show you one example in uh, next class.
Okay, thank you. Okay, anything else?
Uh, that's also, thanks, thanks from myself. Somebody
Else, if not there, then we can wind up last today.
Still last, last class gonna be which date?
22nd February, sir. 22nd February.
So that means we have, uh,
this is 24th, huh?
So we have one week, two weeks, four weeks,
four more weeks of classes.
Four, four more week. So eight classes are there.
I
my c is on another six class.
I will finish it up five to six plus.
Sure, yeah, sure, sure.
Because all are based on the same technique
and uh, very little theoretical changes are there.
So all things are now under research now.
Okay? Yeah, sure, sir.
So you have a, a day long course for Saturday, right?
Yes, sir. It goes up to four o'clock.
Yes. Including nine o'clock, sir.
Nine 9:00 PM
Yeah. 9:15 PM
sir. In between we have like three hour break,
Nine after four.
Oh, and it starts from morning ten nine
Sir. Morning
nine to evening nine, okay.
Okay, so we can finish today, sir.
Uh, last we asked one question, sir, regarding the quiz.
We have sent mail to T also,
but there were no response in the third.
Okay sir? I just got a response from TA saying that, uh,
the uh, correct answer, which is marked by T is incorrect,
so they'll discuss with you and change it,
Okay? Okay.
Okay, fine. I'll talk to him.
Okay? So we can leave now. Thank you. Yes, thank you sir.
Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.